Created new React Native Components entry (#1269)
Codecademy/docs: content/react/concepts/react-native/terms/components/components.md

---
Title: 'Components'
Description: 'Describes the appearance and behavior of the UI of a mobile application.'
Subjects:
  - 'Mobile Development'
Tags:
  - 'Components'
  - 'React Native'
  - 'UI'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-react-native'
  - 'paths/front-end-engineer-career-path'
---

> [**Components**](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/react/components) are units of reusable code that describe the appearance and behavior of the user interface (UI) of a mobile application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[**Components**](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/react/components) are units of reusable code that describe the appearance and behavior of a mobile application's [user interface (UI)](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/uiux/ui-design).
```

## UI Views

Represented as small, rectangular, and oftentimes nestable elements, views can display text, media, and respond to user input. React Native invokes views in their native environment with JavaScript.

![React Native to Native UI Representation](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/tree/main/media/react_native_UI_Views.png)

## Native Components

These previously mentioned platform-backed components are called Native Components. Whether iOS or Android, React Native creates the corresponding, platform-specific view(s) for these components at runtime. Therefore, React Native apps look, feel, and perform like Native apps.

## Core Components

> React Native offers a set of essential, ready-to-use Native Components called Core Components. There are many components ranging from Text to Activity Indicators. Most apps will use these Core Components:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
React Native offers a set of essential, ready-to-use native components called core components. There are many components ranging from text to activity indicators. Most apps will use these core components:
```

| Core Component | Description | 
| --- | --- |
| `<View>` | A common container component that supports layout with flexbox, styles, touch handling, accessibility controls, and can contain other components inside such as other views. It is analogous to a non-scrolling [`<div>`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/html/elements/div) HTML element. | 
| `<Text>` | Displays text and supports styles and touch events. It is analogous to a [paragraph element](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/html/paragraphs). | 
| `<Image>` | Displays different types of images, including from network, static, local disks, and from ‘data:’ [URI](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/general/uri) scheme. It is analogous to an [image element](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/html/images). | 

> | `<TextInput>` | Allows the input of text by the user and provides several configuration capabilities such as auto-correction, auto-capitalization, placeholder text, etc. It is analogous to an [`<input>`] element with its `type` attribute set to `"text"`. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `<TextInput>` | Allows the input of text by the user and provides several configuration capabilities such as auto-correction, auto-capitalization, placeholder text, etc. It is analogous to an [`<input>`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/html/elements/input) element with its `type` attribute set to `"text"`. |
```

|`<ScrollView>` | A container that can nest multiple components and views that can scroll vertically or horizontally. It is analogous to a scrolling `div` element. |

## Community Components

> Components can also be custom-built, and there’s a big ecosystem of these community-built components that can be accessed on the [Native Directory](https://reactnative.directory/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Components can also be custom-built; there’s a big ecosystem of these community-built components that can be accessed on the [Native Directory](https://reactnative.directory/).
```

![React and React Native Components](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/tree/main/media/react_react_native_components.png)

### Examples

> React Native uses the same component syntax structure for its views to display elements to the screen, like in React.js. The following examples are of a `Box` component defined as both a class and functional component:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
React Native uses the same component syntax structure for its views to display elements to the screen, like in [React.js](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/react). The following examples are of a `Box` component defined as both a class and functional component:
```

```jsx
import React, { Component } from 'react';
import { Text } from 'react-native';

// Functional Component

> const Box = () => {
>   return (
>       <Text>I have a small box</Text>
>   );
> }
> 
> // Class Component
> class Box extends Component {
>   render() {
>       return (
>           <Text>I have a small box</Text>
>       );
>   }
> }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
const Box = () => {
  return (
    <Text>I have a small box</Text>
  );
}

// Class Component
class Box extends Component {
  render() {
    return (
        <Text>I have a small box</Text>
    );
  }
}
```

export default Box;
```

> **Note:** To test this example, either the class or function definition of the `Box` component must be commented out before doing so.

> ## JSX, Props and State.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## JSX, Props, and State
```

Unless phrased as a question, punctuation shouldn't be at the end of a header.

Views also use [JSX](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/react/jsx), accept [props](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/react/props), and manage [state](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/react/state).

### JSX

> As in React, the JSX syntax in React Native allows writing elements inside JavaScript, and also the use of variables inside them:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As in React, the JSX syntax in React Native allows elements and variables to be written inside the JavaScript:
```

```jsx
import React from 'react';
import { Text } from 'react-native';

> const Box = () => {
>   const size = “small”;
>   return (	
>       <Text>I have a {size} box</Text>
>   );
> }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
const Box = () => {
  const size = “small”;
  return (	
    <Text>I have a {size} box</Text>
  );
}
```

export default Box;
```
	
### Props

> Most Core Components in React Native accept props. For example, different sizes for the `Box` component can be passed via props:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most core components in React Native accept props. For example, different sizes for the `Box` component can be passed via props:
```

```jsx
import React from 'react';
import { View, Text } from 'react-native';

> const Box = (props) => {
>   return (
>       <Text>I have a {props.size} box</Text>
>   );
> }
> 
> const BoxCollection = () => {
>   return (
>       <View>
>           <Box size=“small” />
>           <Box size=“medium” />
>           <Box size=“large” />
>       </View>
>   );
> }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
const Box = (props) => {
  return (
    <Text>I have a {props.size} box</Text>
  );
}

const BoxCollection = () => {
  return (
    <View>
        <Box size=“small” />
        <Box size=“medium” />
        <Box size=“large” />
    </View>
  );
}
```

export default BoxCollection;
```
	
### State

Like in React, components in React Native also use state to handle data that changes over time, such as with user interaction:

```jsx
import React, { useState } from "react";
import { View, Text, Button } from "react-native";

const Box = () => {
  const [size, setSize] = useState("small");
  return (
    <View>

>       <Text>I have a {size} box </Text>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      <Text>I have a {size} box</Text>
```
